in the last hour another massive Israeli
air strike has been carried out near a
hospital in Gaza this blast occurred
opposite the alwafa hospital in Gaza
we're still investigating how many
people were killed and wounded in this
strike more than 6 and a half thousand
Palestinians have been killed in Gaza
since the 7th of October and nearly
17,500 people have been
injured
okay I'm being told that we can now
cross live to Tark Abu AUM in KH Yunis
in Gaza Tark I have uh many questions to
ask you let's start with the strike near
or on alwafa Hospital what can you tell
us about
that well the Israeli uh crimes and the
Israeli attacks on the Gaza Strip
continue during the last hour since the
early beginning of this day this day
could be considered one of the bloodiest
day in the uh in the word that had been
erupted between Palestinians and the
Israeli occupation forces but before we
start talking about the alwafa targeting
we'd like to send our condolances to our
uh colleague at work uh the Arabian
correspondent for the uh loss of his
wife that has been killed in an air
strike and one of his uh also uh
grandchildren uh we ask Allah that they
will uh rest in peace and make they saw
the bones the ongoing strikes on alwafa
hospital has been ongoing during the
last hour also the the attack was
carried out in the surrounding areas of
Alfa Hospital which considered to be one
of the main Central hospitals that
provide care for uh elderly people uh
and this Hospital located in central the
Gaza Strip the Israeli attacks on
hospitals continue uh in different areas
more than 14 hospitals become out of
services and more than 30 other Medical
healthc Care Centers also was uh become
out of service yeah TK um you mentioned
our colleague while while ddu and I was
going to come to you with that to find
out what you've been able to find out
this puts us in a I mean we're extremely
sad we're extremely saddened and we want
to present our condolences as well for
viewers who are just joining us we found
out just over the last uh 15 minutes or
so that one of our colleagues here at
aljazera while ddu who has been a
correspondent for us in Gaza lost uh
many members of his family multiple
members of his family including his wife
his son and his daughter as a result of
the shelling of their house in nerat in
the uh central part of the Gaza
Strip we never aspire to be the story as
a network
um understandably we are grieving as we
find out that one of our colleagues has
lost close relatives and we present the
condolences of the entire aleser media
Network to W and his family um tar do
you know anything more about that
specific strike the one that took the
lives of the wife and son of
wild well W's family were residing in
the house in central Gaza Strip in anat
refugee camp the Israeli aircraft Target
at the house uh his wife was killed also
two of his uh children were also killed
by this attack while is a veteran
journalist who's uh always provide and
deliver truth to the International
Community about the Israeli crimes on
Gaza and the Israeli violations for
against uh the principles of
international law even uh journalists
family are not away from the Israeli
ongoing bombardment different crimes
have been made in uh against the
families of bedics medical health
workers journalists teachers doctors
professors every single person in the
Gaza Strip might not really have any
glance of Hope to wake up next morning
due to the Israeli ongoing barbaric
crimes well was shocked while he was
covering the uh the events on Central
Gaza
he was delivering the truth to the
International Community to everyone in
the world about what is happening on the
ground we become afraid that we might
lose even our family members after the
the the attack that had been carried on
W's house what is happening with the
ground is beyond compare what is the
happening with the Gaza STP is
considered to be a collective punishment
for more than 2.3 million
Palestinians tell us about nerat refugee
camp why would nsat be struck or be a
Target in the Israeli bombardments
wellat refugee camp considered to be one
of the areas that are located uh to the
Far East of the Southern areas of the
Gaza Strip which recommended to be a
safe place as what is soal the Israeli
occupation forces have described and
even ordered people to evacuate too uh
those people who are even well has been
even evacuated his family to anat
refugee camp meanwhile he abide to the
orders he tried to protect his family
but meanwhile the Israeli War Machine
destroy destroyed his dreams and even
take the souls of his children wife all
right tar kabum thank you for your
reporting thank you also for sharing all
that information with us uh we will come
back to you for more on what's happening
in Gaza it's 1706 GMT that means it's
just minutes past 8:00 p.m. in Gaza what
you're seeing right now is footage that
was filmed a short while ago of
our our colleague at Al jazer Arabic uh
while dhu who lost his wife and his son
you were just seeing seeing him kneeling
um by the body of his son wife lost his
wife and son in an Israeli bombardment
on the nerat refugee camp which struck
uh the house or the lodging where his
family was staying at the time H ABD
Hamid is in rala in the occupied West
Bank Huda uh I understand that you knew
while
I beg your pardon excuse me excuse me my
head's my head's not straight that you
know present tense that you know while I
don't know if you knew his
family I didn't know his family but I
did meet W several times I mean he was
the backbone of Al jaz's coverage in
Gaza he's actually the voice of
Palestinians in Gaza ask anyone when you
walk around the streets there people
just rely on him to make sure that he
conveys
what they going through uh to other
Palestinians but also to the Arab world
so that people know what is happening to
gazans and not only during war but also
during times when there's no conflict
and still the life of gazans is
extremely difficult um I would say on a
personal note he he's W is always this
cheerful man always wanting to help us
and while I was standing here waiting to
speak to you I was just thinking about
just a week ago he was at that hospital
alahi hospital where hundreds of
Palestinians died and he kept on saying
there is no safe place for people in
Gaza and indeed there was no safe place
for his own family and it's it's really
something that just came through my mind
immediately because he has been
conveying this message war after War
this is the fifth war in Gaza and W has
always been there trying to make sure
that the whole world understands and
then this tragedy hits him so
closely it is also our choice it is our
choice we are standing our ground with
our heads held
high down with the occupation forces and
down with
Netanyahu
okay we just listened to an interview or
a bit of an interview that was just
conducted with alaz Arabic correspondent
while ALU in Gaza uh this happening
moments after his wife son and daughter
were confirmed to have been killed in an
Israeli air strike we can talk now with
Maran bishara aljazira senior political
analyst you're joining us from London uh
Maran it's it's difficult for me to
formulate you know questions that
actually make sense at this hour so I'll
let you
talk well you can imagine I I just heard
and
um I can't formulate an answer either
[Music]
um you know
um W is U is is one of a kind and just
listening to him now
briefly it's the same courage uh that
we've uh that we've witnessed from him
over the years so many years he was the
he is the voice of of
courage and uh and Humanity that comes
out of
Gaza uh he's not he's not as lucky as
sharim uh was sharim died he had to see
his family die his
children you know there's no um Maran
can I can I jump in I think since since
you bring up um the memory of Shireen I
I think we have to some of course many
of our viewers will remember this but
some won't uh Shireen Abu aay was an
aljazera correspondent and this time I
am using the past tense because she's no
longer with us and she was killed doing
her I would say in the line of duty
doing her work as a journalist in the
occupied West Bank I'm sorry to
interrupt Marwan go
ahead yes yes um sharim died but uh but
what is cursed now
while probably would have wished he died
instead of his family there is no
greater curse uh for a person than to
see their children die before they
do really for us to come to this uh you
know to this uh to this situation where
we feel that someone died they're lucky
because another
colleague uh is watching his own
children die uh right there in front of
him the way they die by more of the same
Injustice uh that we have faced all of
us but notably our colleagues in
Gaza I was just talking uh the other day
about how brave are our colleagues in
Gaza just watching these young uh young
Souls those those uh those formidable
human beings uh like our colleagues Al
English and Al Arabic we are all of
course one family but to to see one of
our family lose his family that's just
unbearable I mean yes we talk about
death and you know Death Becomes numbers
and we talk about more than 5,000 deaths
and so
on and we see their faces and and we see
the kids we see the babies but now it's
it just come home to us to our Al jazer
family once again uh the um evil has has
hit us personally has hit us in our
hearts and our being and our family and
it's it's not just not
varable yes uh they are uh you know like
other people in Gaza
dying uh families entire fam is dying
and now we see it our own colleague but
once again uh it's just the evil the the
the the curse of a person seeing their
own children die before they do sharen
in that way our colleague who was shoted
by the Israelis was
lucky uh to have had you know her own uh
Destiny in her hands doing her job W has
been doing his job but now he sees his
own family he's our family and he sees
his family die and hearing him now uh
talk about why he's going to maintain
his head high it's just it's just
undescribable it's just you don't know
what to to do with that that courage and
that humanity and that
perseverance right there and then
the man is crying the man is broken but
um but he just can't lose faith in his
people and in their capacity for
steadfastness I I I I just I can't
imagine that a person can say that right
there and then as he watches his kids
laying down in front of him dead um but
this is the kind of people we have this
is the kind of Palestinians who were
live in Gaza who Israelis treat them
as as just
uh you know casualty of war I've I've
heard earlier today Israelis and the
Americans talking about how yes yes more
civilians will die we know that and yes
this is war no I'm sorry no no that's
doesn't have to be that way doesn't have
to be our way just because we have
criminals in our midst like the Israeli
leaders and their supporters in
Washington and elsewhere we don't all
have to die and certainly not of our
members of our family and members of
their family it doesn't have to be that
way it doesn't have to be that way at
all and and W in particular just comes
home
because throughout the day throughout
the days I hear him he is in my head day
and night CU he's there on Al jazer
Arabic explaining to us transmitting to
us the suffering of his people and
now the suffering has hit him person
it it got to him it got to his family it
got to us it's too close to home this is
the reality of Palestinians this is the
reality of Palestinians today the past
two
weeks the past two years two decades the
past Century that they just continue to
die because some other people claim that
they have a right to defend themselves
to defend themselves against what for
what occupation they want to defend
their occupation their Siege of Gaza
they have to kill so many thousands of
people in order to make keep them in
prison that's what they're doing that's
what they called self-d to kill children
in order to keep their parents locked in
in an open prison called Gaza that's
what W has been reporting on telling the
story of Gaza to the world in the most
humanitarian ways the most Humane
ways and now this man this for
formidable this incredible this Brave
man watches as his kids lay down there
his
family
our I don't know I don't I honestly I
can't get my head around it I certainly
can get my heart to it but I can't get
my head around it the crime that is
unraveling that
continues with the complicity of so many
of those who call themselves Humane in
what capitals enabling this kind of
genocide against entire families against
entire
people this is just unheard of in
today's world to happen like that in
front of our own eyes day in day out
minute after minute hour after hour
people die in their hundreds yesterday
more than 700 people died today we don't
know how many people died but we
certainly know that our family is
dying
and um
Marwan you know this is a this is a
reminder and all the Palestinians that
we've spoken to whether they're our own
correspondents whether they're our
guests whether they are you know doctors
anybody who lives in Gaza right now for
the last 18 days they've all
said there's a Common Thread to what
they've all said which is they've all
said there is no safe place in Gaza
right now there is no safe place in Gaza
you whether it's the north whether it's
the South whether it's an unas School
whether it's a a hospital whether it's a
live standup position for a reporter
there is nobody who can guarantee if I
go here you know I know that I will be
alive and so I know that personally each
time I speak to our reporters who are in
Gaza and we try to open most hours with
what's happening on the ground in Gaza
where 2.3 million Palestinians live each
time I talk to them I do have that in
the back of my mind they have families
you know how are their families doing
will their families frankly still be
alive by the end of our coverage of this
conflict and this uh tragic incident
comes to prove once again not that it
was needed but prove once again that
there is no safe place for anyone
whether they're doctors
reporters um un staff
anybody I I know you are uh you are very
care with your words but really this is
much more than an incident this is a
crime a deliberate crime the Israelis
are targeting
civilians the Israeli president said
there are no Innocents in Gaza well here
here it is Mr hsog the president of
Israel tell me if these children are not
innocent when you say there are no
innocence in Gaza and everyone supports
Hamas I want you to tell me you who this
crime is in your
responsibility this genocide has been
called by Israeli president and Israeli
Prime
Minister enabled by the leaders of
Western democracies this is it when when
in a in an area like Gaza an open air
prison a
church is
bombed a mosque is
bombed a hospital is bombed another
hospital is bombed one4 of residential
areas are
bombed a million people are made
homeless within 10 days two weeks what
kind of humanity is this when there is
no mask no church no hospital is
safe American president talks about the
laws of war the laws of war bombing
hospitals
schools hospitals and schools and Moses
these are supposed to be the safe havens
for believers and
nonbelievers yes there is no safe place
in Gaza there there are no safe anything
in Gaza and said oh I can't see
that not I mean the children the
children more than 2,000 children have
been killed massacred by this bombing
because some Israeli leaders think it is
their right to
kill in order to
maintain a gruesome occupation a
gruesome Siege of a people who only want
freedom that's the only thing they want
Justice they want to be able to see and
fresh air without looking up and seeing
Bombs riging over
them this is not a lie life when a
hospital a school a Mosk is not safe
anymore Maran um look thank you for
sharing your thoughts uh just moments
after we found out that uh our colleague
who lost his wife his son and his
daughter we'll talk to you again um
gather your thoughts and we'll come back
and we'll talk to you again as we we
need to continue to talk about this
thank you veryone very much Marwan
bishar I'm going to turn to alzer's Gaza
producer safwat kahut safwat you're
joining us now on the phone uh from Gaza
you know while I don't know if you knew
his family it's just it's almost 8:30
where you are in the Gaza Strip and for
viewers who are just joining us uh we
are saddened to have to report that um
aljaz correspondent while ALU lost his
wife son and daughter as a result of the
shelling of their house in nerat in the
central Gaza Street
safat back to you what can you tell me
about while and and his family if you
knew
them let me pay condolences for first
while ourselves and for the whole
Palestine for their
losers I know while for more than 20
years when he started to work for the
local daily uh National daily called Al
then gradually he uh moved to work for
TV satellite I think it
was Iranian one and then Al jazer was
lucky that they
got uh I know about his family his
family was is one of the most famous
families in in the G STP uh it's a well
known family
um um reputable
family well we need
in a long time to talk about and his
strugging as a
journalist three years ago we met in the
Bure that we have evacuated and I we
have been or we should do some reports
from Sha hospital and I met W in the P I
said why don't you to move to a safe
place he asked me do you recommend a
safe place I said no so
now he play the bell for reporting the
truth which was
expected and now even we have been
receiving lots of phone call from
relatives to move and change our places
especially those who live abroad
thinking that there could be a safe
[Applause]
place take your time take your time safw
what um
no it's the moment that needs everybody
besides him but fortunately too
dangerous
and to reach him and stay with him in
these difficult
moments My Sons even because once we
visited his family especially with as
for a family visit my wife met his wife
personally she said I loved his
wife she's a struggler in terms of
growing up lots of
children good family good
husband we all feel sorry for what
happened and especially that we cannot
reach while and stay with him at these
difficult moments that is that is
another pain to add to
what what we suffer from
now have you SE have you spoken to him
recently I mean have you in in the last
few moment we tried we tried we tried
but you know the network is not uh about
helping it's uh most of the time there
is a failure in the networks either
cellular or uh internet I'm now by the
way using uh Israeli SIM card just to
get connected with you because of the
failure and the continuous failer of the
network
um we some of our colleagues decided to
go but then finally they had some
explosions in the nearby they they
changed their
minds as he say he has been saying no
safe place and as Maran said a while ago
doctors journalist everyone is a Target
and cannot you cannot be safe or you
cannot get or move to another place now
even one of my friends asked me to put
one of my children in a different house
so at least one of them could could
survive I wish well if we could find a
safe place from the the beginning and he
could help his
family this is surprised that we expect
that the journalist would say
it few days ago by the way there was
intensive bombardment near and next to
the place where I'm displaced to I took
my children and I try to move to a safer
place when the family or when the people
living in that building they knew that
I'm from Al jazer they were all scared
and they told me literally you you could
be a threat for the whole building safat
can you can we pause for a second
explain that to our viewers um you
think and tell me tell me if I'm
understanding all of this right but
you're telling our viewers that as a
reporter you think that you are
specifically you and other journalists a
Target on account of your work bringing
information out of Gaza you think that
not only yourselves are targets but also
your family am I understanding all of
that
right if I was 50% sure now I 100% sure
after what happened to Wild
family yes and this is what we hear from
people wherever we go we put
uh TV Fon in our car or indication so
people you know they say you're
journalist you are a
Target so try to move to another place
that's why some what some people say
because they follow the Israeli News
everybody is listening to the local and
Israeli news and everybody knew almost
about Israeli decision to shut down Al
jaaz offices uh in in in Israel so this
decision in Israel they might follow the
law to to shut down Al jazer
and but in other places they might use
something different to to stop Al jaaz
from telling the truth and from
reporting what's happening I have been
receiving also in my my um Facebook lots
of I don't want to say trats but people
claiming from the west from Israel that
we are telling lies and
that we are not telling the truth
something like that we try to explain to
them we are are not part B part in this
conflict I mean what
happened I mean in the armed conflict
but they still attack and criticize us
as um you know as if we were killing
lies from their point of view and that
we are a threat to their uh existence
something like that you know it's not
really lovely what you receive no and
you know saf what it's something that uh
jazer has had to say out loud along with
others many times that journalism is not
a crime and it Bears repeating and it
will bear repeating that journalism is
not a crime
um tell me about W's family because my
understanding uh I don't know how much
you know about this is that he moved his
family from the northern part of Gaza he
was one of the many Palestinians who
heeded Israel's call to leave the north
when Israel said it would start even
heavier bombardment of the northern part
of the Gaza Strip and he moved his
family as I understand it to the south
in order to be safe because Israel said
at the time this is a few days ago um
that the north would not be safe but the
South would be is that am I getting this
right yes by the way while while family
was hit in Alat refugee camp in the
central area of the Gaz I myself I'm
staying in
the city which is 5 kilm were far from
Wild's family so yes we were displaced
and followed the instructions if we can
say
instructions uh thinking that we are in
safe place or could be safe but when we
arrive to this place it's same same
suffering same bombardments
same uh inhuman uh
conditions as uh we have been reporting
before we spend the day looking for
water for our children so and we have
been as as you could see
around 24 hours from Naser
hospitals U people arriving Parts into
to the hospitals children women elderly
people so there is no safe place and all
these um instructions that we receive or
thst to evacuate the North to the South
When we arrive to the South we found we
found it even in some places even more
dangerous than the North and Gaza City
many people by the way returned back to
Gaza and including my father by way by
the way who remained who stayed with me
couple of days and then he decided to
return to jabalia refugee camp uh
because when he came he thought it could
be a safe or safer let's say but then he
realized that all the areas are
dangerous and suffer
from same crisis same danger same
bombardments today one of even one of my
colleagues who were displaced he came to
visit me with his family and he was
considering staying with me in my place
but suddenly the the fighting the
fighter gets bombarded in my area so he
even took his family and look for
another safer place and again there is
no safer place the the south is not an
independent region and is not an
independent
Governor whole govern is controlled by
the crossings that controlled by the
Israelis and since Israel is controlling
these Crossings the same humanitarian
problem the same humanitarian crisis the
same bombardment the s16 that bombard
jabalia is the same one that
bombard and the of the south of the Gaza
Tri now we from every now and then we
can hear even the Israeli artillery bom
ing in east of the of the central and
southern area of the Gaza Strip so
there's no real safe place all over the
Gaza Strip and by the way Gaza is very
small even if they bombard the north
people in the South they could hear it
so it's very small place in terms of
distance
and um and
population safat thank you very much uh
for you know get getting your thoughts
together and sharing all of that both
your thoughts all the information and
the reporting that you just also gave us
um we appreciate you and we will come
back to you uh shortly that's alzer's
Gaza producer safat kahut who was just
joining us on the phone from inside the
Gaza Strip moments after Al Shazer
learned that our colleague Al Gaza
correspondent while ALU lost wife son
and daughter in a strike in an Israeli
strike on the nerat uh camp in the
central Gaza Strip the aljazera family
naturally presents its condolences to uh
yel and we grieve with him at this hour
H Abdul Hamid is in rala in the occupied
West Bank H what can you share with us
you've met while before you know
him well I would say that when it comes
to Gaza there is us the journalist and
then there is w dhu and W dhu by far is
the voice of Gaza he is the man who
relentlessly regardless of the situation
is out there in the field giving a voice
giving a face uh explaining what's
happening in Gaza and I would and he
does that not only in times of War but
also in times where there is no conflict
but still life is extremely uh difficult
for people in Gaza and EXT and for him
as well because he's part of of of the
Gaza social fabric his family is part of
the Gaza social fabric so whatever
pressure people in Gaza feel they feel
it as well and while always manages to
keep coldhead go in front of the camera
and just report things as they are and
you know and I was listening now to
safat kahut and how broken he is I could
relate to that because also for the AL
jazer Family W is the focal point uh you
go to w to ask about things you w gives
you if you're not really understanding a
story he will explain it to you and he
always tries to keep you on the a right
track and it also touches
saf all of our staff in Gaza uh so what
happened to W's family so much because
they Pro probably think what's going to
happen to our family is this the same
thing that's going to happen uh how we
going to how is W going to be we need W
because W is our boss so certainly I I
just hav been there so many times I can
just imagine that this tragedy
definitely touches wild the most but it
definitely touches every single person
in that Bureau and I would say that a
lot of people in Gaza regardless of what
they are personally going through they
would also feel for while simply because
a lot of people told me that when I was
in Gaza and I've been there many times
during Wars after Wars people tell you
that W is our voice is the man who gives
us dignity is the one who reminds the
rest of the world that we exist that
we're having a hard time so I think this
his tragedy is a tragedy that just going
to touch many other uh people in Gaza
regardless of what they're going through
and it's going to touch many journalist
I mean just a few hours ago uh we were
watching a video of a journalist here in
the occupied West Bank Muhammad Al far
he was sitting in a car and he also
broke down in tears because he had just
received a phone call that his sister
and members of her family uh had died
also in an a strike in Gaza journalists
are being Palestinian journalists are
being touched so close to home by this
tragedy by by the conflict that's going
on to Gaza 23 have already died inside
this trip and it and then you look at
other journalists people like well they
will continue reporting just a week ago
he was at the hospital alah hospital at
that horrific bombing that happened
there hundreds of people died there and
I remember him saying to the cameraman
don't put don't show some of the some of
what he was saying seeing was so
gruesome he did not want to share it but
he was there reporting over and O
throughout the night and just to see him
tonight at the hospital himself carrying
a baby just like the people he's been
reporting on is a picture that shocked
me I have to say and didn't shock only
me it would shock many Palestinians and
many people around the Arab world
because that's how famous Wu is but
seeing him carrying I think that baby
was maybe one of his grandchildren I'm
not really sure but seeing him breaking
down he all of a sudden was not W ddu
the journalist he was that W the son of
Gaza who is going through the same
tragedy as everyone else in
Gaza yeah Huda uh absolutely uh and
frankly we don't lean into the type of
Journalism at aljazera where we insert
ourselves into the story we try to stay
out of it but as when it comes to Gaza
that's almost impossible because whether
it's our correspondents or their
families there you know they are in it
along with the 2.3 million Palestinians
who all say that there is no safe place
for them and that they don't know where
to go to make sure that they won't be
the victims of an Israeli
bombardment ABD Hamid reporting from
rala in the occupied West Bank thank you
very much for that I do want to uh bring
you I can bring you now
um W's words moments after he found out
that he lost his wife his son and his
daughter in a bombardment on nerat
refugee camp in the Gaza Strip he said
and this is a rough translation what
happened is clear it's a continuation of
the targeting of women and children and
civilians we were reporting on the
strikes in general I was focusing on the
a yarmuk area and after returning from
this demolished area I was reporting on
the air strikes that have targeted all
the areas including Alat we were
suspected uh suspecting that the Israeli
occupation will not leave those without
punishment and unfortunately that's what
happened this is the supposedly safe
area that the occupying forces were
talking about the ethical Army it's a
big catastrophe especially when the
victims are children and women no more
no less a large number um so those were
Wild's words moments after he found out
that he lost his closest family members
his wife his son um his children while
ALU Al correspondent inside the Gaza
Strip I can turn now to Y yna you're our
correspondent you work inside Gaza you
have a family inside Gaza I know this
must be hitting you hard what can you
tell
us it's a shock
that we reporters who report to the
world what's happening around us have to
report the stories of our fellow
colleague or he has to report the story
of his own
family
why is always known to us as the tough
man and the strong man we all turn we
all turned to him when we were
where we're in tragedies when we're not
feeling safe we call him on a daily
basis every day just to say tell us is
this going to end soon and we're
journalists and we're working here and
we know it's not he calms
everyone he tells us to take care of our
families he speaks to us like a big
brother not just a bu Chief in Gaza
he's always there when we need
him it's very heartbreaking to be
reporting about's family and to see how
broken he
is he did not leave God the city he
stayed there despite all the threats and
warnings because of all the bombardments
that were ongoing in Gaza and did not
stop for for 19 days in a row
now I I just show him a couple of days
ago and I said it's very dangerous in
the
buau why don't you leave he
said almost all the crew is in mood
hospital I must be here in Gaza City to
report about these people who are
getting boms every
day he you didn't give up on
them you want to leave you were
explaining you were you were saying to
our viewers while is Gaza bureau chief
for aljazera you're an aljazera
correspondent you're both in the middle
of this war you both have
families um you've shared to our viewers
and to your social media followers a
little bit of what it's like to be a
correspondent and a mom in this
territory that's being relentlessly
bombarded I wonder did he ever give you
uh advice while on you know how you
handle that the professional side of
your life and also the personal side of
your life and how you keep your family
safe and how you handle all of that side
of
things asked him I told him what what
should I do he told me I'm sorry but
there is no safe place in Goda he
literally told me like this I told him I
went to the South and the bombardment
was relentless it did not stop there was
no water there was no electricity I
struggled to get drinking water for my
kids he said Gaza is just like the
South it's just it's all just a fake
propaganda to go to the South people are
being killed in the South just like they
are in Gaza City and this is what we
have been witnessing since day
one hundreds of people who had EV who
had evacuated to the the South including
me returned back to Gaza thousands not
just hundreds thousands that I know
myself they came back because hundreds
others of those who evacuated were
killed in the bombardments of the South
he told me I'm sorry I can't I can't
tell you I can't lie to you and tell you
there is a safe place to turn to there's
no safe place in
Goda and this is really the reality what
what we're living every
day you were referring to the fact that
uh many Palestinians left the north went
to the South when Israel warned gazin
to go down to the south in order to
avoid bombardments and then you reminded
our viewers um something which has been
true for many days now which is even in
the South there are many many
bombardments and it is not a safe place
despite the fact that Israel
uh told more than a million people to go
there uh and you were just saying that
hundreds of people who came from the
north ended up dying in the South uh in
these bombardments can you share with us
your story because you decided to take
your family back to the
northed to take my family back to the
north
because literally the bombardments were
all in the south every single moment
everywhere everywhere we turned to there
was a home bombarded with
civilian the home itself next to the
towers residential Towers where I was
staying bombarded the resal
tow most
of my nephew was injured with other
people in those Towers they were
severely injured from that home
bombardment and until now we're still
witnessing bombardment everywhere in
South why should we stay in the South
when it's the same condition there's no
water there's no food there's no
electricity and there is ongoing
bombardment it's the same conditions
that we're talking about in Gaza City
there is no difference at all there is
no justification for us for isra to go
to the South if one day just one day was
a safe day for us one night that we
slept and we hoped that we would wake up
alive we did not hug our kids very close
to us and kiss them because we might not
wake up again in every
night just in the South just like we do
in Gaza City we wouldn't have
returned
yna we thank you uh well we thank you
for many things first of all I thank you
for joining us on the phone uh moments
after we all found this out and
everybody is shocked and I think viewers
can well understand that and uh we're
all grieving for Wild's family here so
thank you for joining us on the phone
for that and also just before I let you
go an immense thank you uh for the risks
you've been taking to bring information
to us and to our viewers out of the Gaza
Strip and uh you just pulled back the
curtain you know more than we typically
like to do about what your personal
situation has been and you going from
the north to the South when you have a
young daughter and you have a family and
you have to think about their safety so
uh we thank you for all of that and uh
we hope for everybody's continued safety
thank you very much
yimo it's uh
5:47 GMT it's just before 9:00 therefore
in uh Gaza and I want to remind you of
what has happened the family of aljazera
correspondent W dhu has been killed in
an Israeli air strike in central Gaza
W's wife son and daughter are among the
victims the dhu family used to live in
Gaza City but when the Israeli Army
issued an evacuation order while sent
them to Al nera's refugee camp for their
safety which is further south he
remained behind to report on the
situation in Northern Gaza and while was
reporting from Gaza City on Wednesday
evening when he was told that the house
his family was staying and had been hit
while son Mahmud was in his final year
of high school his daughter sham was
just 7 years old other members of W's
family are still missing now W spoke to
reporters at the hospital in Gaza
moments after he found out and this is
what he had to
say of course we are in a big Calamity
right now a big tragedy especially it's
perpetrated against women and children
no more no less than a Calamity large
numbers of people's houses bombarded
however this is the custom of the
Israeli occupation at the end of the day
we are in on this land this is our
destiny this is our destiny and this is
our choice and this is our patience and
we won't deviate from this
path I want to talk now to Sarah kyat
Sarah you're in occupied East Jerusalem
Sarah I think you've heard our coverage
over the last 50 minutes or so uh you
know I I'm I'm going around and I'm
talking to our teams on the ground and
we're talking to people who knew while
you've been to Gaza you know also what
he represents in terms of Journalism
there I I'm not sure whether you met him
at the time or not um what can you tell
us at this very early stage while we're
still trying to all of us put our
thoughts together and our emotions in
order as well
s yes s well um that was back in
February when I went to Gaza and I met
all of the team from Al jazer Arabic to
the AL jazer english team incredibly
welcoming and um you know the
circumstances there have been difficult
they're working under very difficult
circumstances of course I would have
went well as I did with all of them they
um always tried to remain uh you know
welcoming in a way that uh to show you
what what gazer is like and to show you
that um people in Gaza
are some of the friendliest when you're
living under such uh tragic
circumstances they would make light
sometimes of their situation they share
uh they have a good sense of humor in
Gaza and of course that was the case
also with W as well in the bureau there
that Bureau um that I was staying at and
worked from um was a replacement office
if you like for the one that had been
bombed in 2021 in an Israeli air strike
and we even uh they took me in the car
and we went and had a look and I pointed
out a massive crater not knowing that's
where the building that where it stood
and they said oh that's where our old
office was um and of course many of the
journalists there and this including
ourselves have been targeted in in more
ways than one since covering uh this
conflict because it's become incredibly
divisive um also you know I was there in
occupied West Bank when it was the
oneyear anniversary for the death of our
colleague
abair and it just really brings to home
the devastation that it can cause not
just to the story that we're covering
but also the people that are covering uh
that story you know we've been in touch
with our colleagues there and as you
heard from yomna the fear is real um we
just heard from uh prime minister benjam
Benjamin netan the Israeli Prime
Minister who's had another statement
that's come out and in that statement he
urges again once again the people in
Gaza to move from the north to the South
and that is just what's just happened
now with w and his family is just
another proof um that something they've
been saying time and time again that
nowhere is safe this uh rhetoric that
the government keeps pushing the Israeli
government is to move but really the
south is being bombarded as is the Rafa
Crossing as is the north um and I just
wanted to add sirl um just uh less well
about 24 hours ago um W himself and our
Al jazer Arabic crew what many of our
viewers don't know is they were filming
a live from the top of the rooftop from
the bureau and a massive explo a massive
uh strike struck another building about
20 to 30 MERS away and it clearly
rattled them it was a very close call it
was a huge explosion um and they could
even the debris was flying across with
them at the rooftop it was flying across
and they had to duck down including W
himself it's all on video it was all
filmed live and that was just 24 hours
ago and here you are and unfortunately
the you know the tragedy of this war is
that journalists are not immune and
neither are their families Sarah I note
what you told us that Israel is still at
this hour and on this day calling for
gazin to head south even though it is
you know beyond any doubt and it is well
established and documented at this stage
and has been for days that there is
nowhere safe in Gaza and that both
bombardments are continuing in the North
in the South and in the central part of
Gaza Sarah hyro thank you for sharing
that information and your thoughts with
us uh at this hour Sultan Barakat you're
professor of public policy at hammad bin
Khalifa University here in Doha you've
been on set with us this
afternoon uh this is the last thing we
expected and wanted to be talking about
there I'm not sure what you want to
share with us but you've been sitting
beside me for a whole hour you've heard
what everybody's had to say it's
absolutely Terri it's heartbreaking
really and uh my condolences to while
and to the whole family of Al jazer but
it does illustrate that there is no safe
place in Gaza at the moment uh while
moved his people his family to a refugee
camp refugee camp by definition should
have been protected to start with so
nothing can protect anyone and I think
as long as Israel has the uh green light
from the United States we are likely to
see worse and worse this has just
happened to be a real uh a real time
example unfolded in front of all of us
with someone that we know personally so
you can you can just an illustration of
what millions of people are suffering
from and I would just like to quote from
Biden's speech on the 19th of October in
Tel AV and I hope he also now is
watching this news and can feel the
black hole he said when he talked about
the Israeli victims he talked about the
black hole in the middle of their chest
and now there's a black hole in what in
theid middle of wild chest and the
everyday small things that he will miss
with his wife and children including
that morning coffee and I use this
specifically because there is this
business of De dehumanizing the
Palestinians they don't do the everyday
thing these people just run around
trying to survive all the time while the
other side is the Civilized world where
they sit for coffee meet each other uh
feel for their relatives and I think
it's time to stop all this I mean the
same
uh president who gave that speech I hope
now there will be something said from
the United States to try and bring some
sanity to this crazy
situation thanks for sharing that with
us and thanks for also reminding us of
that quote uh I'll take that to Maran
Bashar uh ales you're senior political
analyst at this hour Marwan you know
you're of course you're our analyst but
you're you're you're an Al you're a
staff you're a colleague of w we're all
feeling this on a on a personal deeply
human level um so I suppose I suppose
that you know we're this is a kind of a
message to our viewers that we're we're
doing our best to report and normally we
don't put ourselves in the middle of the
story but the fact is with Gaza it's
different because everybody including
our reporters and their family are right
in the middle of it and nowhere is safe
Marwan your
thoughts yes absolutely I I just can't
begin to imagine how well it must be
feeling now uh he's always had that
steady voice so I cannot really tell how
he's feeling I certainly can't even
begin to imagine being in his place um
paradoxically uh I I also come to learn
the last few minutes that in fact he he
reported on that
story he actually
reported on the killing of his family of
his children not knowing they were the
victims of that woman so imagine you
report on another human tragedy
happening in Gaza because of the Israeli
bombing and then you find that it's your
own family and you find out it's your
own
children and I I can only think of one
thing
here just in terms of Netanyahu and his
ilk regardless of their religion and
nationality there's a special place in
Hill for the killers of
children all right Marwan mishar thank
you very much will be talking to you
throughout the evening uh we're going to
reset we're going to take a short break
I just want to remind everybody who's
been with us of what's just happened the
family of aljazera correspondent wild
dhu has been killed in an Israeli a
strike in central Gaza Wild's wife son
and daughter are among the victims his
son Mahmud was in his final year of high
school his daughter sham was just seven
years old we're back in a
moment